# Hands-on Lab - Day 2 

#### Tools for this lab
In today’s labs, you will mainly be working with the Azure Command-line Interface (az cli). You can also use it on Powershell or Bash on your local computer or a virtual machine.

Please be aware that commands listed in the instructions are based on Bash, and you will need small changes when running on PowerShell. (e.g., Environment variables) 

#### Azure Command Line Interface
If you don't have the Azure CLI installed you can run the following command:
```
curl -sL https://aka.ms/InstallAzureCLIDeb | sudo bash 
```

To get access to your subscription you need to login
```
az login
```
With your browser, go to http://aka.ms/devicelogin and provide the code to authenticate in your Azure Subscription.


## Exercise 3 - Publish to image to a private registry

As part of the previous exercise, you published your image to the Docker Hub, a public repository that allows anyone to pull and use it. However, most of the time, your need to keep your applications and microservices private and limited access to your images only to people in your organization.

In this exercise, You will use Azure Container Registry to store your images and then integrate them to other Azure services.


#### Task 1 - Define environment variable to keep the names of your instances
During the lab, you will need the name of your instances several times. To make it easier, we will start defining the environment variable to keep those names handy. If for any reason, your session closes, you will need to come back to this task and define these variables again. 

```
NUMBER=$RANDOM
LOCATION="westus"
RESOURCE_GROUP="aks-workshop-RG"
REGISTRY="myregistry"$NUMBER

```

Verify the name of your instances with the following command:
```
echo $LOCATION
echo $RESOURCE_GROUP
echo $REGISTRY
```

#### Task 2 - Create a Resource Group for your services
```
az group create -n $RESOURCE_GROUP -l $LOCATION
```
#### Task 3 - Create an Azure Container Registry (ACR)
```
az acr create -n $REGISTRY -g $RESOURCE_GROUP --sku basic --admin-enabled true
```
#### Task 4 - Use Azure Container Registry to build and store your images
First, you need to have get the application code.
```
git clone https://github.com/carlosalexei/demoapps.git
cd demosapps/HelloWorld
```

Now you will use ACR to build the image

```
az acr build --image helloworld:2.0 --registry $REGISTRY .
```

#### Task 5 - Check your image is on your registry
You can go to the Azure portal choose the Azure Container Registry and check the Repositories property or execute the following comand:
```
az acr repository list -n $REGISTRY
```
To see the tags for a specific image, use
```
az acr repository show-tags --name $REGISTRY --repository helloworld 
```

## Exercise 4 - Deploy the image to Azure Container Instance 

Once you have the image in your private registry you can deploy it to serveral Azure Services, let's start with the Azure Container Registry Service.

#### Task 1 - Define environment variables

To make it more comfortable here, we will define some environment variables to use during the deployment process. 
```
LOCATION="westus"
RESOURCE_GROUP="aks-workshop-RG"
SERVER=$REGISTRY".azurecr.io"
ACI_NAME="containerinstance"$NUMBER
ACI_DNS="myaciapp"$NUMBER
```
Verify the name of your instances with the following command:
```
echo $LOCATION
echo $RESOURCE_GROUP
echo $REGISTRY
echo $SERVER
echo $ACI_NAME
echo $ACI_DNS
```

#### Task 2 - Create the Azure Container Instance and deploy the image
```
az container create -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n $ACI_NAME \
   --image $SERVER/helloworld:2.0 \
   --dns-name-label $ACI_DNS 
```
Note that you will need to provide the username and password for the registry. You can find those in the Access Key section of your ACR instance.

#### Task 3 - Check your application running on ACI
With your browser, go to the full qualified domain name of your instance
```
az container show -n $ACI_NAME -g $RESOURCE_GROUP --query 'ipAddress.fqdn'
```

## Exercise 5 - Deploy your application to Azure Kubernetes Service

#### Task 1 - Define environment variables

Let's define some of the variables that you will use during this exercise.

```
LOCATION="westus"
RESOURCE_GROUP="aks-workshop-RG"
SERVER=$REGISTRY".azurecr.io"
AKS_NAME="k8scluster"$NUMBER
```
Verify the name of your instances with the following command:
```
echo $LOCATION
echo $RESOURCE_GROUP
echo $REGISTRY
echo $SERVER
echo $AKS_NAME
```

#### Task 2 - Azure Kubernetes Services cluster creation
```
az aks create -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n $AKS_NAME --generate-ssh-keys
```

#### Task 3 - Install kubectl locally
```
sudo az aks install-cli
```

#### Task 4 - Get the credentials to manage the AKS cluster via Azure CLI
```
az aks get-credentials -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n$AKS_NAME
```
#### Task 5 - Explore your cluster
Let's get the list of nodes (virtual machines) running in your cluster
```
kubectl get nodes
```
Now, the list of pods and services
```
kubectl get pods
kubectl get services
```

#### Task 6 - Configure ACR integration for your AKS cluster
Azure Container Registry is a private registry. For an AKS cluster to get access to images and be able to pull them you need an authentication mechanism.
```
az aks update -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n $AKS_NAME --attach-acr $REGISTRY
```

#### Task 7 - Deploy your application to the AKS cluster
Finally, you can now deploy the application that is packaged on the image you push to the ACR
```
kubectl apply -f HelloWorld.yaml
```

You can test your app by checking the External-IP shown in the hello services when you run the following command:
```
kubectl get services
```






